# Team 9 - Project 1 - Spotify Data Analysis

## Assignment Details
**Data Analytics Bootcamp - Project 1**: The objective of this project is to analyze Spotify's data to discover tends and patterns with the aim of developing valuable insights from our findings, and then, make data driven recommendations.

## Team 9

* Chloe King
* Emeka Osasah
* Huiyan (Annie) OuYang
* Jimmy Lee
* Jorge Martinez

## Dataset Information

We used a dataset that was found on Kaggle: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/amitanshjoshi/spotify-1million-tracks

**Spotify_1Million_Tracks**: This dataset was extracted from the Spotify platform using the Python library "Spotipy", which allows users to access music data provided via APIs. The dataset collected includes about 1 Million tracks with 19 features between 2000 and 2023. Also, there is a total of 61,445 unique artists and 82 genres in the data.

This clean data has been prepared and utilized for research purposes. Its significance lies in its potential to unravel patterns and predict song popularity prior to its release. This dataset could be used to create various predictive models with machine-learning/deep-learning techniques.

**Note**: The dataset was too large to add to our repo. Please download the ``spotify_dataset.csv`` file from Kaggle to accompany our code when running.

## Breakdown of Tasks

Each team member was responsible for analyzing the dataset and generating visuals for the presentation. Everyone provided their content for the slides and the visuals were adapted to match the presentation theme.

* Chloe King: Analysis on Top 10 Songs from 2000 to 2023, Top 3 Songs for Top 10 Genres from 2000 to 2023, Top 10 Songs (2023), and Top 3 Songs for Top 10 Genres (2023)

* Emeka Osasah: Analysis on Song Duration Changes from 2000-2023, Tempo Changes from 2000-2020, Tempo vs. Popularity (2023), Loudness vs. Energy (2023), and Acousticness vs. Popularity (2023)

* Huiyan (Annie) OuYang: Analysis on Top 3 Artists by Popularity for the Top 10 Genres, Tempo vs. Danceability (2023), and Danceability vs. Popularity (2023)

* Jimmy Lee: Analysis on Top 10 Genres with Most Danceability (2023), Top 10 Danceability Songs by Artist & Genre (2023, and Danceability Changes from 2000-2023

* Jorge Martinez: Analysis on Top 10 Genres from 2000-2023 and Top 10 Trending Genres (2023)

## Summary

By implementing these strategies, Spotify can enhance the listener experience and remain aligned with evolving music trends, ultimately fostering stronger user engagement and satisfaction.

* Personalized playlist and recommendations:
  * Leverage song feature data to create highly tailored playlists based on listener preferences
  * Higher levels of algorithm generated playlists

* Enhanced user experience through genre exploration:
  * Promote emerging genres such as lo-fi and indie-pop
  * Offer interactive features like “genre journeys”

* Behavior-based features:
  * Introduce an AI-driven feature that detects shifts in listener preferences over time and suggests updated music tastes or trends (e.g., trending artists in their favorite genres)

* Improved artist and genre discovery:
  * Provide more visibility for emerging artists within popular genres by featuring them in curated “up-and-coming” playlists
  * Host exclusive content or early releases among users who favor specific genres or artists

## Source Code Location

* The source code including the analysis and the presentation slide deck is located in the main directory. Each team member's code is provided in their own Jupyter Notebook.

## Acknowledgments

* The Kaggle dataset was generated by:
  * Amitansh Joshi
  * Vedant Das
  * Amit Parolkar
